Multiplayer Snake game
Setting up application game using docker

Application Setup
Step 1: Log in to the Application Server
Access your application server via SSH or any remote terminal client.

Ensure you have administrative privileges.

Step 2: Install docker-compose
Run the following command to install Docker Compose on your application server:



sudo apt install docker-compose
Verify the installation:



docker-compose --version
Step 3: Create a Directory for the Application
Create a working directory named app-test:



mkdir app-test
cd app-test
Step 4: Clone the Application Repository
Clone the GitHub repository containing the application code:



git clone https://github.com/vishalpapan/devsecops-multiplayersnake
Move into the application directory:



cd devsecops-multiplayersnake
Step 5: Create a Docker Build for the Application
Build the Docker image for your application:



docker build . -t vishalpapan/snake:new
Verify the image creation:



docker images
Step 6: Push the Image to Docker Hub
Log in to your Docker Hub account (if not already logged in):



docker login
Push the image to Docker Hub:



docker push vishalpapan/snake:new
Create a Docker-Compose File
Create a docker-compose.yml file in the root of the application directory:



version: '3'
services:
  snake-game:
    image: vishalpapan/snake:new
    ports:
      - "80:3000"
Commit the docker-compose.yml file to GitHub:



git add docker-compose.yml
git commit -m "Added docker-compose file for deployment"
git push origin main
Run the Application
Step 1: Pull the Image
Pull the image from Docker Hub:



docker-compose pull
Step 2: Start the Application
Run the container using docker-compose:



docker-compose up -d
Verify the container is running:



docker ps
Step 3: Access the Application
Open a browser and access the application at the server's IP:



http://192.168.56.101
Ensure the application is running and accessible.

Map Domain to the Application
Update the DNS configuration of the domain to point to the application server's IP address (192.168.56.101).

Verify the domain is mapped correctly:



http://multiplayersnake.tk
Confirm the game is accessible via the domain.

Troubleshooting
Error: Unable to bind port 80:3000

Issue: The port 80 might already be in use on the server.

Fix: Modify the docker-compose.yml file to use a different host port:



ports:
  - "8080:3000"
Restart the application:



docker-compose up -d
Access the application at:



http://192.168.56.101:8080
Error: Docker image not found

Issue: Incorrect image name in docker-compose.yml.

Fix: Ensure the correct image name is used:



image: vishalpapan/snake:new
Pull the image again:



docker-compose pull
Error: Application not accessible

Issue: Firewall rules or security group restrictions.

Fix: Open the required ports (e.g., 80 or 8080) in your server’s firewall or cloud security group settings.

DNS not resolving

Issue: Domain http://multiplayersnake.tk not pointing to the correct IP.

Fix: Verify DNS configuration and ensure A record maps to 192.168.56.101.

Note: The troubleshooting steps are based on issues encountered during deployment, and fix #1 (changing the port to 8080) resolved the port binding issue successfully.

Summary of Steps for Troubleshooting and Setting Up Git Repository
1. Resolve Port Conflict (Docker Setup)
Issue: Docker service couldn't start because port 80 was already in use.

Steps Taken:

Identified the process using port 80 with:



sudo lsof -i :80
Stopped the conflicting process using:



sudo systemctl stop <service-name>
 or killed the process with:



sudo kill -9 <PID>
2. SSH Key Setup for GitHub Authentication
Issue: Git operations failed due to deprecated password authentication.

Steps Taken:

Generated a new SSH key pair:



ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_email@example.com"
Added the public key (~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub) to the GitHub account under Settings > SSH and GPG Keys.

Tested the SSH connection with:



ssh -T git@github.com
3. Configure Remote Repository for SSH
Issue: Remote URL was still using HTTPS, leading to authentication issues.

Steps Taken:

Updated the Git remote URL to use SSH:



git remote set-url origin git@github.com:vishalpapan/<repository>.git
Verified the updated remote URL:



git remote -v
4. Push Code to GitHub
Issue: Initial push failed due to no existing commits or incorrect branch reference.

Steps Taken:

Checked and created the main branch:



git branch
git checkout -b main
Added and committed the changes:



git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
Pushed the changes to GitHub:



git push -u origin main
In some cases, directly running git push resolved the issue when the upstream branch was already configured.

Key Learnings
Always verify the remote URL (git remote -v) to ensure it matches your intended repository.

Use SSH for secure and seamless Git operations on GitHub.

Resolve port conflicts by identifying and stopping/terminating processes using critical ports like 80.
